Date - 2nd June, 2021

Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) is a web service that makes it easier to set up, operate, and scale a relational database in the AWS Cloud. It provides cost-efficient, resizable capacity for an industry-standard relational database and manages common database administration tasks.

Overview of Amazon RDS
Why do you want a managed relational database service? Because Amazon RDS takes over many of the difficult and tedious management tasks of a relational database:

When you buy a server, you get CPU, memory, storage, and IOPS, all bundled together. With Amazon RDS, these are split apart so that you can scale them independently. If you need more CPU, less IOPS, or more storage, you can easily allocate them.

Amazon RDS manages backups, software patching, automatic failure detection, and recovery.

To deliver a managed service experience, Amazon RDS doesn't provide shell access to DB instances. It also restricts access to certain system procedures and tables that require advanced privileges.

You can have automated backups performed when you need them, or manually create your own backup snapshot. You can use these backups to restore a database. The Amazon RDS restore process works reliably and efficiently.

You can use the database products you are already familiar with: MySQL, MariaDB, PostgreSQL, Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server.

You can get high availability with a primary instance and a synchronous secondary instance that you can fail over to when problems occur. You can also use MariaDB, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle, and PostgreSQL read replicas to increase read scaling.

In addition to the security in your database package, you can help control who can access your RDS databases by using AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) to define users and permissions. You can also help protect your databases by putting them in a virtual private cloud.

Amazon Web Services provides a number of database services. For guidance on which service is best for your environment, see Running databases on AWS.

DB instances
The basic building block of Amazon RDS is the DB instance. A DB instance is an isolated database environment in the AWS Cloud. Your DB instance can contain multiple user-created databases. You can access your DB instance by using the same tools and applications that you use with a standalone database instance. You can create and modify a DB instance by using the AWS Command Line Interface, the Amazon RDS API, or the AWS Management Console.

Each DB instance runs a DB engine. Amazon RDS currently supports the MySQL, MariaDB, PostgreSQL, Oracle, and Microsoft SQL Server DB engines. Each DB engine has its own supported features, and each version of a DB engine may include specific features. Additionally, each DB engine has a set of parameters in a DB parameter group that control the behavior of the databases that it manages.

The computation and memory capacity of a DB instance is determined by its DB instance class. You can select the DB instance that best meets your needs. If your needs change over time, you can change DB instances. For information, see DB instance classes.


DB instance storage comes in three types: Magnetic, General Purpose (SSD), and Provisioned IOPS (PIOPS). They differ in performance characteristics and price, allowing you to tailor your storage performance and cost to the needs of your database. Each DB instance has minimum and maximum storage requirements depending on the storage type and the database engine it supports. It's important to have sufficient storage so that your databases have room to grow. Also, sufficient storage makes sure that features for the DB engine have room to write content or log entries. For more information, see Amazon RDS DB instance storage.

You can run a DB instance on a virtual private cloud (VPC) using the Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) service. When you use a VPC, you have control over your virtual networking environment. You can choose your own IP address range, create subnets, and configure routing and access control lists. The basic functionality of Amazon RDS is the same whether it's running in a VPC or not. Amazon RDS manages backups, software patching, automatic failure detection, and recovery. There's no additional cost to run your DB instance in a VPC. For more information on using Amazon VPC with RDS, see Amazon Virtual Private Cloud VPCs and Amazon RDS.

Amazon RDS uses Network Time Protocol (NTP) to synchronize the time on DB Instances.

AWS Regions and Availability Zones
Amazon cloud computing resources are housed in highly available data center facilities in different areas of the world (for example, North America, Europe, or Asia). Each data center location is called an AWS Region.

Each AWS Region contains multiple distinct locations called Availability Zones, or AZs. Each Availability Zone is engineered to be isolated from failures in other Availability Zones. Each is engineered to provide inexpensive, low-latency network connectivity to other Availability Zones in the same AWS Region. By launching instances in separate Availability Zones, you can protect your applications from the failure of a single location. For more information, see Regions, Availability Zones, and Local Zones .

You can run your DB instance in several Availability Zones, an option called a Multi-AZ deployment. When you choose this option, Amazon automatically provisions and maintains a secondary standby DB instance in a different Availability Zone. Your primary DB instance is synchronously replicated across Availability Zones to the secondary instance. This approach helps provide data redundancy and failover support, eliminate I/O freezes, and minimize latency spikes during system backups. For more information, see High availability (Multi-AZ) for Amazon RDS.

* Security
A security group controls the access to a DB instance. It does so by allowing access to IP address ranges or Amazon EC2 instances that you specify.


* Monitoring an Amazon RDS DB instance
There are several ways that you can track the performance and health of a DB instance. You can use the Amazon CloudWatch service to monitor the performance and health of a DB instance. CloudWatch performance charts are shown in the Amazon RDS console. You can also subscribe to Amazon RDS events to be notified about changes to a DB instance, DB snapshot, DB parameter group, or DB security group. For more information, see Monitoring an Amazon RDS DB instance.

* How to work with Amazon RDS
There are several ways that you can interact with Amazon RDS.
- AWS Management Console
- Command line interface
- Programming with Amazon RDS