AWS Organizations and Cost Explorer

AWS Organizations allows you to manage multiple AWS accounts at Once. With Organizations you can create groups of accounts and apply policies to those groups.

1. Centrally manage policies across multiple AWS accounts
	AWS Organizations allows you to manage multiple AWS accounts at once. You can create groups of acounts and then attach 
	policies to a group to ensure the correct policies are applied across the accounts. Organizations enables you to centrally manage
	policies across multiple accounts. without requiring custom scripts and manual processes. 

2. Control Access to AWS Services. 
	With AWS Organizations you can create Service Control Policies. that centrally control AWS services use across multiple AWS accounts. 
	You can specifically allow or deny multiple AWS services. For example you can deny the use of kinesis or DynamoDB to your HR group within your
	AWS Organizations, Even if IAM in that account allows it. SCP will over ride it. 
	
3. Automate AWS Account creation and deletion
	You can use the AWS Organizations APIs to automate the creation and management of new AWS accounts. the Organizations APIs 
	enable you to create new accounts, and to add the new accounts to a group. The Policies attached to a group are automatically 
	applied to the new account. 

4. Consolidated Billing across multiple AWS Accounts
	Allows you set up single  payment account for all AWS accounts in your organizations. You can also take advatage of aggregated billing like discounts for EC2 and S3 services. 
	
	Cost Explorer:
	Cost Explorer is a tool that enables you to view and organize your cost and usage. You can explore your usage and cost using the main graphs. 
	the cost explorer cost and usage report. you can view data upto last 13 months, forcast how much you are likely to spend next 3 months. and
	get recommendations on what reserved instances to purchase. 

Which of the following is  incorrect? (Multiple Correct) 
A. AWS Organizations is used for Consolidated Billing
B. AWS Organizations is used for Centrally managing policies across multiple accounts
C. AWS Organizations allows use of all services which are allowed by IAM. 
D. Automating account creation and deletion can't be done by AWS Organizations. 

